# ISO 22301:2019

### ISO 22301:2019 overview <a href="#iso-223012019-overview" id="iso-223012019-overview"></a>

[ISO 22301:2019](https://www.iso.org/standard/75106.html) is the premium international standard for business continuity management that provides for a formal certification. ISO 22301 specifies the requirements for a Business Continuity Management System (BCMS) to help organizations protect against, prepare for, and recover from disruptive incidents. It is a comprehensive standard that organizations can use to demonstrate the highest level of commitment to business continuity and disaster preparedness.

### Azure and ISO 22301 <a href="#azure-and-iso-22301" id="azure-and-iso-22301"></a>

Azure has established a BCMS in accordance with the ISO 22301 standard and has received the corresponding certificate. Azure was the first hyper-scale cloud services platform to receive the ISO 22301 certification for business continuity management.

In AWS:&#x20;

ISO 22301:2019 standard specifies requirements to implement, maintain and improve a business continuity management system (BCMS).

The requirements specified in this standard are generic and intended to be applicable to all organizations, or parts thereof, regardless of type, size and nature of the organization. The extent of application of these requirements depends on the organization's operating environment and complexity.

The standard is applicable to all types and sizes of organizations that:

1. implement, maintain and improve a BCMS;
2. seek to ensure conformity with stated business continuity policy;
3. need to be able to continue to deliver products and services at an acceptable predefined capacity during a disruption;
4. seek to enhance their resilience through the effective application of the BCMS.

The ISO 22301 standard is used to assess an organization's ability to meet its own business continuity needs and obligations.
